How to plot data in Python using Plotly (#4022)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/how-to-plot-data-in-python-using-plotly/index.md

-  `x = 'gdpPercap'` and  `y = 'lifeExp'` tells us what we want our x and y coordinates to be. The x-axis will represent the gdpPercap which has been assigned the label `Wealth`, while the y axis will represent the life expectancy assigned to the label `Life Span`.
- `color = 'continent',` tells plotly that we want each continent to have a different color.
- `title = 'Life Span and Wealth 1952 - 2007',` is the title of our visualization. You can change it to whichever title fits you best.
- `log_x = True,` converts the scale on the x-axis to be a log scale the distribution as it is is quite wide.
- `range_y = [25,95],` constrains the range on the y-axis to between 25 and 95 years
- `hover_name = 'country',` tells us that when we hover our mouse on the circles, we want it to tell us which country it represents. 
- `height = 600,` tells plotly to adjust the size of the plot to 600px and `size_max = 100` to adjust the size of each point to 100px.

Now, let's take a look at our output when we run the code.

![Output](/engineering-education/how-to-plot-data-in-python-using-plotly/plotly-output-52.png)

The above image shows the distribution of wealth in the year 1952.

> ![Output](/engineering-education/how-to-plot-data-in-python-using-plotly/plotly-output-07.png)

Reviewer: Consider explaining how a reader is meant to interpret the results of this plot to add value

Using the same dataset, let's plot using chloropleth.

```python
px.choropleth(data_frame=gapminder_df,
             locations='iso_alpha', 
             color='gdpPercap', 
             title = 'Life Span and Wealth (1952 - 2007) using cloropleth',
             hover_name='country', 
             animation_frame='year', 
             height = 600,
             color_continuous_scale=px.colors.sequential.Plasma, 
             projection='natural earth')
```
![Plotting using chloropleth (1952)](/engineering-education/how-to-plot-data-in-python-using-plotly/chloropleth-output-52.png)

The image shows the distribution of wealth in the year 1952 using cloropleth projected on natural earth.

![Plotting using chloropleth (2007)](/engineering-education/how-to-plot-data-in-python-using-plotly/chloropleth-output-52.png)

We see the distribution of wealth in the year 2007 using cloropleth projected on natural earth.

Please find all the code for this tutorial [here](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1mz0GthxE2FektPON4ZnkSUvO8Otf1Ix1#scrollTo=X0vwv1kIXHBn) and see how the distribution of wealth compares by continent from the year 1952 to 2007.

### Wrapping up

> Using only a few lines of code, that's how easy it is to plot data in Python using plotly. Please go and find some datasets of your own and plot them using plotly. Have fun making them look really good while displaying the aspects of the data that you want to show.
> 
> Happy coding!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a few lines of code, you can plot data in Python using plotly. I challenge you to find some datasets to try this with. Enjoy visualizing your data in a fun and impactful way. Happy coding!
```

### References

> - [Plotly](https://plotly.com/)

Reviewer: Refer to the comment on line 21 if applicable here as well
